Hello everyone and welcome to this installation options overview lecture.
It's not time to get your system set up with Python and spark in the Jupiter notebook system.
This section has lectures covering four main installation options and you're free to choose whichever
one you want and works best for you.
Or if you already have your own personal setup with SPARK in Python you can basically feel free to skip
this entire section.
All of the installation options will work on any operating system.
So if you're in a Windows a Mac or a Linux computer all of these installation options are going to work
for you because we're either going to link you online to a Linux based system such as a Amazon Web Services
hosted notebook and you just S-sh into that instance or we'll use a virtual box to set up a Linux based
system locally or if you're on Linux already you'll just follow the directions.
So let's explain why we do this and when we focus so much on Linux based systems realistically SPARC
won't be running on a single machine.
That's basically the whole point of SPARC.
Your data is so large that it no longer fits on a single machine and you're going to need to run on
a cluster on a service like Google Cloud or Amazon Web Services and these cluster services will pretty
much always be on a Linux based system.
So while you yourself are probably going through this lecture and going through the exercises on one
single machine realistically you're going to be running on a cluster of machines and all those cluster
services are pretty much always running on a Linux based system.
They're not running Mac OS or Windows so understanding the very basics of setting up something through
a Linux command line is really essential to getting smart going in the quote unquote real world.
So we're going to be going over various options that are based on Linux instead of showing you how to
directly install SPARC on a Windows or iMac because employers in really the real world is really focused
on Linux when it comes to spark which makes sense because they're running on a cluster.
It's going to be in a Linux based system.
But to be clear all of these options will work regardless of your operating system.
So there Linux or buntu based and they're going to work either locally or through an online connection.
So don't think like oh I have a Windows computer or a Mac OS this course is going to work for me all
of the options that are going to show you the four of them will work regardless of your operating system.
The four methods we're going to be covering are setting up Ubuntu SPARC in Python on a virtual box on
your local machine having Amazon E.C to with price on and SPARC showing you a company called data Brick's
which his own notebook system and then also showing you the Zeppelin notebook system on Amazon Web Services
elastic map produce.
Now note this one is not free but let's dive deeper into each option so you can choose the one that's
best for you.
So Ubuntu on a virtual box so this option is going to set up a virtual box on your local computer.
And this works and the operating system and it's going to walk you through having Ubuntu spark in Python
all installed locally on this virtual machine.
So you'll open up either Windows or Mac or Ubuntu and you'll click on this little virtual box and it's
going to act like a virtual computer that's running inside of your computer.
Then there's the Amazon E.C to have Python and spark.
And with this installation process we'll walk you through setting up a free micro instance of Amazon
Web Services of easy to which you can then connect to online through something known as esus H.
And this falls under the Amazon Web Services one year free trial limits.
So it is a micro instance you're not going to actually run any big data on it because we want to keep
it free although you could expand the instance to go beyond micro and have it be a large instance.
But keep in mind you'll have to pay for that.
So in this installation lecture will just kind of show you the free limits and if you want to expand
more than that it's basically just the dropdown menu where you click on a larger instance size and then
we'll also show you the data Brick's notebook system data Brick's itself is a company founded by the
creator of SPARC and currently they have a freely hosted notebook platform the office of a paid version
that supports a variety of SPARC API such as Python or Skala or Java but it's a notebook system that's
freely supported on their platform and we'll check that out and walk you through how to set that up
as an option.
And then finally there's the Amazon Web Services elastic map reduce notebook option which runs on zipline
notebook and the AWOS elastic mapper this platform allows you to quickly set up clusters.
But no this is not a free service.
I think the minimum you have to pay is a dollar an hour but it does allow for a really quick set up
of a large cluster.
So we will walk through this and this EMR notebook does have the ability to connect to an Amazon storage
distance on S3 and we'll walk through that.
But keep in mind you will have to pay money.
You'll have to supply a credit card to actually follow along with that installation lecture.
All right.
So jump to the curriculum page and choose the installation lecture you prefer.
You don't need to go through all of them.
Personally I would recommend the virtual box that we can run everything locally but it's really up to
you.
Whatever works best for your needs.
Okay.
And one last note I really don't feel restricted just to these four options.
The code we work through will work on any platform that has support for Sparc and Python and we have
both the dot PI files and the notebook files for you.
So if you already have something that runs SPARC in Python and just needs those that py files those
are in the zip file notes.
Feel free to use them.
You don't need to use any of the options we describe here but I would recommend they check out the virtual
box to get everything set up locally.
If you don't have that sort of set up yet.
All right with all that being said.
Let's go ahead and get started.
We'll begin auto playing through the installation lectures.
So I would recommend you click on that curriculum tab and jump to whatever lecture you want.
So it doesn't seem like you have to go through all of them and leave yourself about 20 to 30 minutes
for the set up depending on which one you're doing.
Some are much faster than others like the EMR map.
This one is actually really fast but you have to pay for it.
The Virtual Box 1 which is the one I recommend.
Those take a little bit of time to make sure you go through all the steps in order.
So make sure you have enough time to actually walk through everything correctly.
All right.
Thanks.
And we'll see you at the installation lectures.